docs/website/cli.md, before:

# CLI Reference

The `veritas` command-line tool has two main functions: generating validation code and linting your validation rules.

## Code Generation (`veritas`)

This is the default mode of the `veritas` tool. It scans your Go source files for struct annotations and generates Go code containing your validation rules.

### Usage

The generator is typically run via `go generate`.

```go
//go:generate go run github.com/podhmo/veritas/cmd/veritas [flags]
```

### Flags

-   `-gen-type <TypeName>`: **(Required)** The name of the struct type to generate rules for.
-   `-out-name <filename.go>`: **(Required)** The name of the Go file to be generated.

### Example

```go
// file: models/user.go
package models

//go:generate go run github.com/podhmo/veritas/cmd/veritas -gen-type=User -out-name=veritas_gen.go

type User struct {
    // ...
}
```

Running `go generate ./...` in your project will execute this command, creating `veritas_gen.go` in the `models` package.

## Linting (`veritas -lint`)

The linter statically checks your `rules.json` files for common errors.

### Usage

```bash
veritas -lint [packages]
```

The linter recursively finds and analyzes `rules.json` files in the specified packages. If no packages are provided, it defaults to the current directory (`.`).

### Checks

The linter performs the following checks:

1.  **Valid CEL Syntax**: Ensures that all `TypeRules` and `FieldRules` are syntactically correct CEL expressions.
2.  **Field Existence**: Verifies that every field specified in a `FieldRules` map actually exists in the corresponding Go struct.

### Example

To run the linter on your entire project:

```bash
go run github.com/podhmo/veritas/cmd/veritas -lint ./...
```

Commit message:

I've updated the documentation and summarized the TODOs. Here's what … (#70)
* I've updated the documentation and summarized the TODOs. Here's what I did:

- I summarized Phase 8 in TODO.md since it's now complete.
- I updated the website documentation to reflect the new `WithTypes` API and the deprecation of the `TypeAdapter` pattern.
- I updated the CLI documentation to reflect the new `veritas-gen` and `veritas-lint` commands.

* I've updated the documentation and summarized the remaining work. Specifically, I:

- Summarized the completed Phase 8 in the TODO.md file.
- Updated the website documentation to reflect the new `WithTypes` API and the deprecation of the `TypeAdapter` pattern.
- Updated the CLI documentation to accurately reflect the usage of the `veritas` command with the `-lint` flag.

---------

Co-authored-by: google-labs-jules[bot] <161369871+google-labs-jules[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/website/cli.md, after:

# CLI Reference

The `veritas` command-line tool has two main functions: generating validation code and linting your validation rules. The behavior is controlled by the `-lint` flag.

## Code Generation (Default)

By default, the `veritas` tool scans your Go source files for struct annotations and generates Go code containing your validation rules.

### Usage

The generator is typically run via `go generate`.

```go
//go:generate go run github.com/podhmo/veritas/cmd/veritas [flags]
```

### Flags

-   `-o <filename.go>`: **(Required)** The name of the Go file to be generated.
-   `-pkg <package>`: The package name to use for the generated file. If not specified, it defaults to the package of the directory containing the file.

### Example

```go
// file: models/user.go
package models

//go:generate go run github.com/podhmo/veritas/cmd/veritas -o veritas_gen.go

type User struct {
    // ...
}
```

Running `go generate ./...` in your project will execute this command, creating `veritas_gen.go` in the `models` package.

## Linting (`-lint` flag)

When the `-lint` flag is provided, the tool switches to linting mode. It statically checks your validation rules for common errors.

### Usage

```bash
go run github.com/podhmo/veritas/cmd/veritas -lint [packages]
```

The linter recursively finds and analyzes Go files in the specified packages. If no packages are provided, it defaults to the current directory (`.`).

### Checks

The linter performs the following checks:

1.  **Valid CEL Syntax**: Ensures that all `TypeRules` and `FieldRules` are syntactically correct CEL expressions.
2.  **Field Existence**: Verifies that every field specified in a `FieldRules` map actually exists in the corresponding Go struct.

### Example

To run the linter on your entire project:

```bash
go run github.com/podhmo/veritas/cmd/veritas -lint ./...
```
